all right let's play a game real quick
is this next video real or AI
generated go ahead take your
time so that was a real video that was a
video from YouTube channel now what
about this video real or AI
generated okay that one's AI generated
not a lot of giveaways unless you happen
to have memorized a geographical
landscape around Mount Fuji and hunted
for inconsistencies but okay what about
this
one and yeah you guessed it already this
one's AI generated too okay what about
this one pay really close
attention did you catch it so no okay
that one was real but the fact that you
thought about it so I for the last week
have had full access to the newest and
most advanced version of Sora which is
the AI video generation tool from open
Ai and the results that I've gotten from
it are both
horrifying and inspiring at the same
time like the last time I looked at this
nine months ago this was a very private
tool that was just unveiled they were
just starting to show its capabilities
and so we were looking at other people's
prompts actually basically it was open
ai's carefully hand selected prompts for
what they want to show us and we could
learn some stuff from that but this time
I just get the controls myself it's just
an open textbox my wish is sora's
command and that's actually kind of a
lot of pressure you can just you can
type whatever you want but I did not
take this responsibility lightly I
basically over the past couple days have
been taking every possible angle of
asking Sora to make things for me I've
asked for photo realistic things I've
asked for cartoon things I've asked for
objects people signs actions text still
life everything you can imagine and I
feel like I've Come Away with a pretty
good sense of what it's good at what
it's bad at and what it could actually
be used for today but this is a powerful
tool that's about to be in the hands of
millions of people so consider this the
first ever Sora review The Good the Bad
and the Ugly let's jump in so first of
all this is the UI on the left side you
can explore other prompts that people
have recently made and then some
featured ones where I suppose open AI is
still going to curate some of the best
results to Showcase what it can do and
if you hit the bookmark button on any of
these they'll show up in your saved Tab
and what I like about these again is
anything you click on you can see
obviously who made it but you can also
read exactly what they typed into the
prompt box to get this result and I'll
get back to that in a second so then
underneath that you have your library of
all the videos I've generated from Sora
prompts anything I've tagged as a
favorite for my own creations and then
uploads which is any of the files that
I've uploaded to Sora for it to make
videos out of another crazy feature that
I'll get to in a second but then lastly
you have your folders so you can
organize things that you've created into
different folders maybe for different
projects or different themes or whatever
just to keep it somewhat organized so
okay right off the bat Sor is a tool
after all and so this feature of being
able to see what other people are typing
and then the results that they create
from those prompts is both for
inspiration but also for Education
because it is really interesting reading
how simple or how detailed some of these
prompts are
and then looking at what Sora generated
and what it took creative liberties with
to add on its own and then if you really
like someone else's results but want to
adjust it in just just a slight way for
your own use there's the remix feature
so you hit that button and then you can
describe specific changes you want it to
make to that video for it to then
generate a new one so for this one for
example you know I like this shot and
the house is pretty cool but I kind of
want there to be a golf course on those
cliffs in the background right so I type
that and then I can also change the
resolution which as you can see it will
take longer for higher resolutions and
then you also can specify exactly how
much of a remix it is so if it's a
subtle mild or strong remix which
dictates basically how much it's willing
to change the results from the original
and then you can even dial that in on a
slider from 1 to eight if you want to I
think adding Golf Course would be nice
but I want to keep those Cliffs and the
house so it's a mild change right CLI
click remix wait a bit and then boom you
have the new creation a fresh new
artificially generated video with that
same house and those same Cliffs but now
1080P and with a golf course in the
background wild I found that 360p videos
take actually very little time to
generate I do not want to use the word
create here these are artificially
generated from Source material but
basically like a 5-second 360p video
will generally take like less than 20
seconds to generate and they're being
generated on open AI servers so it has
nothing to do with the speed of my
computer or even my internet connection
once I send off the prompt it just takes
that time and then when it's done it
shows up and I can download it if I want
to and then something like a
1080p 10c video it looks significantly
better but it also takes much longer it
can take a couple of minutes for a
really detailed prompt in a 1080p video
and that's also like right now when
almost no one else is using it I kind of
wonder how much longer it'll take when
this is just open for anyone to use but
that's roughly how long they've taken
and there's also the storyboard feature
which kind of looks and acts like an
online video editor where you can string
together several prompts and it works
best for stringing together several
different actions in a row basically
I've noticed it's hard to get a video to
do several different things in
succession with a single prompt but you
can use their built-in Editor to string
several prompts together in a row and
then storyboard can help you blend them
all together into one longer video and
that actually can work better instead so
I've been playing with this all week and
I've been throwing dozens and dozens and
dozens of prompts at it with all sorts
of characters different styles different
unique things in the video and so here
are some observations that may surprise
you or maybe not so one it seems like
there is no object permanence so you
know we had AI generated images right
and they've gotten you've seen the Arc
of them getting better and better and
higher resolution and realistic over
time now that we're doing
videos basically they're stringing
together a bunch of different AI
generated photos in a row with some sort
of continuity but for a video to make
sense to a human the objects kind of
have to move in certain ways and behave
in certain ways in the real world and so
one of the most common dead giveaways
from a flaw of an AI generated video
especially with this tool is just errors
and object permanence so you'll see
things like objects passing in front of
each other or behind each other in ways
that don't make sense you'll see stuff
disappear or reappear out of thin air
especially if objects pass in front of
them but even sometimes without any real
reason at all they can also just
materialize and then vanish like the
smartphone in this imaginary Tech
reviewer's hands Boop just gone and
there's also another one that's really
common anytime something with legs has
to walk if you just watch the legs for
long enough they almost guaranteed will
mess up which leg is the front leg and
which is the back just look at this one
just try to watch one of the legs and
you'll see it happens it switches back
and forth from the front leg to the back
leg I mean this this is super common it
happens all the time in these and that
brings me to another one of my biggest
observations which is it just struggles
with physics in general the way things
move which actually makes perfect sense
because physics
would seem to require some understanding
of what you're making a video about so
in the same way that large language
models can struggle with hallucinations
or putting together sentences that are
technically incorrect or don't quite
make sense these video models will also
struggle with putting together videos
where the movement of the objects since
it doesn't know that they're objects
sometimes also doesn't really make sense
pretty much anytime I try anything
remotely photo realistic basically you
instantly notice that the movements
don't look right like it tends to look
kind of slow Moy actually but then other
parts won't be in slow motion which our
I picks up on right away you know I was
playing with making like CCTV style
footage because in my head that's going
to be the easiest thing to fake people
are going to get their hands on this
they're going to fake security camera
footage all the time but even in this
you can see the movement of the humans
is just slightly off like first it's a
little slow then it's fast for no reason
it's just weird now it seems to be
decent sometimes at fluid dynamics for
whatever reason like i' I've been very
impressed with some examples of water
Rippling or crashing in waves or moving
in realistic ways it does happen
sometimes it can be actually pretty
goodlooking and same thing also with
fire sometimes it can look pretty
realistic even if the smoke isn't but
yeah physics in general is definitely a
weakness so then if you know this you
can mess more with clation or cartoon
style and then those irregularities in
movement or physics become a lot easier
to pallet because it feels more like a
stylistic choice or an artistic choice
but I'll get to the stuff that it
actually does really well in a second
but there is another feature that you
might have seen around the internet a
little bit with some other tools like
this that takes a source image and can
turn it into a video with a prompt so
people have been bringing memes to life
and imagining what would happen right
after some iconic image just by typing
into the AI video generator and asking
Sora what it would look like and Sora
can do that too the difference with Sora
I found is it's way less likely to try
anything that it recognizes as having
any copyrighted or intellectual property
whatsoever it's it's pretty picky it
actually does reject a lot of stuff
anything with any public figures or
recognizing characters in general or
logos it actually yeah refuses to do it
it will also refuse if it thinks any
subject you upload in the image is under
18 years old makes sense but I did
upload this AI generated image which
Dolly made and asked it to make them all
singing and dancing and hit generate and
it totally did it again it helps a lot
that they're cartoon styled and not some
super realistic scene but this is a
totally AI generated video I also tried
a few other images from my camera roll
and these just it just gets weird weird
it just doesn't know the context of what
direction any object was moving in the
photo it again it doesn't know physics
and so things just get really wonky it's
it's impressive that it's AI generated
video but you can tell pretty quickly
that it's AI generated video so all that
being said you know we've seen what it's
good at we've seen what it's not so good
at and you might be wondering like what
what is this tool actually for and I
actually found a few things that are not
so scary that I actually pretty good at
so these are the things that I found as
of right now that Sora can be used for
abstracts so you can be as descriptive
as you want and create all sorts of
textures and colors and gradients to
make an abstract shape move around in a
way that essentially looks like it could
be a screen saver or just some
background piece or whatever you want
I'm sure there's a world where someone's
going to make an nft out of this stuff
also totally weird but you can do
abstract stuff for sure I noticed it's
getting better at reproducing text
especially when you ask it for specific
text so there are sometimes background
garbled text in these videos and that's
going to continue to happen but I found
that if I asked it for an individual
title slide in a style it actually could
give me the correct text on that slide
this animation it gave me of sketching
the Empire State Building this would
make a killer title slide or even an
intro to a documentary about you know
the building or Manhattan or something
like that I was very impressed and then
stop motion or you know cartoon style
characters again like I said before
cartoons don't necessarily have to have
realistic movements or physics so the
errors in those things don't hit the eye
as much and so the characters still look
like dare I say art you know they're
characters especially in scenes like
this one the graffiti doesn't have to
actually say real words for this to look
normal like the bear doesn't have to
have the correct number of fingers or
toes it just looks like some album art
come to life basically which I'm sure
someone would find useful on social
media somewhere and while we're at it
here's a couple other random prompts
that impress me um I asked for Santa
fighting Frosty the Snowman in the style
of Mortal Kombat and it built a readable
scoreboard I didn't ask for the
scoreboard but it built all that with
the names and everything which is pretty
crazy immediately again the details are
weird when you start looking at it but
this could be a good inspirational
starting point and then I also asked for
a video of a tech reviewer sitting at a
desk and I said nothing about this fake
plant but Sora took the liberty of
adding this exact fake plant here which
I said nothing about in my prompt and
that is a convenient reminder of the
other side of the tools like this the
unknown behind a lot of the tools I mean
clearly we already know that these are
AI generated videos that have to come
from some Source material are my videos
in that Source material is this exact
plant part of the source material is it
just a coincidence I don't know open AI
has talked about using publicly
available media and data and it's always
to me been a kind of a sketchy
definition we we don't know if it's
everything we don't know if it's too
late to opt out if we wanted to opt out
and also I I have no idea how much
energy this uses or if it is
significantly more than the llms or
Dolly were using but still the craziest
part of all this is the fact that this
tool Sora is going to be available to
the public I guess around the time of
this video publish uh to everyone to
millions of people all at once and I
mean yes it does a pretty good job with
its guard rails of refusing to do
anything photorealistic refusing to use
actual people's likenesses or any
dangerous or harmful acts and yes it
does Watermark every single generated
video with this little animation here in
the corner but you can still crop
watermarks and it's still an extremely
powerful tool that directly moves us
further into the era of not being able
to believe anything you see online I
mean read through the comments on my
last video about AI generator video this
is this is a lot for Humanity to digest
right now all of that and these videos
don't even have audio they're just a few
seconds long they're just 1080p like
this this is the new Baseline this is
once again the worst that they will be
as they continue to get better in the
future a lot to think about thanks for
watching catch you in the next one
peace real quick thanks to Ridge for
sponsoring this portion of the video and
for supporting the channel you know just
as a PSA we're kind of coming up on that
time of year where we're perfectly in
the middle of we should rush to get good
holiday gifts we're kind of running out
of time lucky for you Ridge is running a
holiday sale right now where they're
doing up to 40% off and you guys know
one of the reasons I partner with them
is because they have actually high
quality gear so that's one of the things
I'm going to be doing for this year is
getting gifts from Ridge for people and
I think I actually haven't gotten Andrew
his gift yet so hopefully he doesn't
watch this part of the video but I think
I'm going to get him uh since he's a
hiker one of the ridge knives but don't
tell them but whatever you end up
getting if you slide over to ridge.com
MKBHD that's where you'll be able to
find find everything that's on sale and
everything Ridge does so shout out to
them again and catch you guys in the
next video peace